# Values

The compiler and interpreter for this stage have the following set of values (non-Integer constants ommited).

Integer: wraps a simple int_32 value
Function:
  - fns: list of pointers to contained functions
  - consts: list of pointers to constants used within function
  - params: count of parameters
  - locals: list of names of local variables
  - local_refs: list of names of local variables which are accessed by reference in descendent functions
  - frees: list of names of free variables to which the function references
  - names: list of global variable names and record key names accessed by this function
  - instructions: linear list of instructions to be executed for this function
Mapping: a dictionary which maps variable names to values
Ref: a reference to a variable. implemented as a tuple of (name, pointer to Mapping)
Closure: a Function, and a list of Refs

# Heap

We have a program heap which maps addresses to values. Values on the heap are one of the above, or a StackFrame.

StackFrame:
  - locals: address of Mapping of local variables \in (Function.locals - Function.local_refs)
  - local_refs: address of Mapping of local variables \in Function.local_refs
  - stack: LIFO stack of operands, which are values as above

A notable address on the heap is G, which stores the Mapping of global variables.

# Semantics

An instruction will take in a tuple (Heap H, StackFrame S, Closure C, Operation O), and produce a new Heap and Stack. Operations have 1 optional operand, op_0. Of course, Stacks are stored on the Heap so this will actually only produce a new Heap, but for clarity we will describe the changes to the Stack seperately to other changes to the Heap. Esentially, we will omit the following implicit action at the and of the operation, with `H''` being the final result.

```
(H', S') -> (H'')
```

When only the Stack is updated, we will describe this without including mention of the Heap. When we need to access the Function of the Closure, we use `F` as a shorthand for `C.F`.

It's worth nothing that the starting Program is simply a Closure with an empty list of Refs, and the top-level Function (F_G) to be executed. We build up each new Heap sequentially by executing each instruction of the Function.

```
(H_1, S_1, C_G, I_1) -> (H_2, S_2)
(H_2, S_2, C_G, I_2) -> (H_3, S_3)
...
(H_n, S_n, C_G, I_n) -> (H_{n+1}, S_{n+1})
```

# Instructions

## LoadConst

```
(S) -> (S :: F.consts[O.op_0])
```

## LoadFunc

```
(S) -> (S :: F.fns[O.op_0])
```

## LoadLocal

Throws an UninitializedVariableException unless `F.locals[O.op_0] \in S.local_refs` or `F.locals[O.op_0] \in S.locals`, as below.

```
If[O.op_0 \in F.local_refs]
  (S) -> (S :: H[S.local_refs][F.locals[O.op_0]])
Else
  (S) -> (S :: H[S.locals][F.locals[O.op_0]])
End
```

## StoreLocal

We note that `S = S' :: val`.

```
If[O.op_0 \in F.local_refs]
  H'[S.local_refs][F.locals[O.op_0]] = val
Else
  H'[S.locals][F.locals[O.op_0]] = val
End
(H) -> (H')
(S' :: val) -> (S')
```

## LoadGlobal

Throws an UninitializedVariableException unless `F.names[O.op_0] \in G`.

```
(S) -> (S :: H[G][F.names[O.op_0]])
```

## StoreGlobal

We note that `S = S' :: val`.

```
H'[G][F.names[O.op_0]] = val
(H) -> (H')
(S' :: val) -> (S')
```

# PushReference

```
If[O.op_0 < size(F.local_refs)]
  name := F.local_refs[O.op_0]
  ref := (name, S.local_refs)
Else
  name := F.frees[O.op_0 - size(F.local_refs)]
  ref := find(C.refs, _.name == name)
End
(S) -> (S :: ref)
```

# LoadReference

We note that `S = S' :: ref`.

```
val := H[ref.mapping][ref.name]
(S' :: ref) -> (S') -> (S' :: val)
```

# StoreReference

We note that `S = S' :: ref :: val`.

```
H'[ref.mapping][ref.name] = val
(H) -> (H')
(S' :: ref :: val) -> (S')
```

# AllocClosure

We note that `S = S' :: ref_1 :: ... :: ref_n :: n_args_ptr :: fn_ptr`.

Throws a IllegalCastException if `H[fn_ptr]` is not a Function or Closure.
Throws a IllegalCastException if `H[n_args_ptr]` is not an Integer.
Throws a IllegalCastException if `H[ref_i]` is not an Ref.

```
closure_ptr := H' << Closure(fn_ptr, [ref_1, ..., ref_n])
(H) -> (H')
(S = S' :: ref_1 :: ... :: ref_n :: n_args_ptr :: fn_ptr) -> (S') -> (S' :: closure_ptr)
```

# Call

We note that `S = S' :: arg_1 :: ... :: arg_n :: n_args_ptr :: fn_ptr`.

Throws a IllegalCastException if `H[fn_ptr]` is not a Function or Closure.
Throws a IllegalCastException if `H[n_args_ptr]` is not an Integer.

```
If[H[fn_ptr] is Function]
  closure_ptr := H' << Closure(fn_ptr, [])
  closure := H'[closure_ptr]
Else
  closure := H[fn_ptr]
End

frame := StackFrame()
frame.locals = Mapping()
frame.local_refs = Mapping()

For[i, arg in arg_1:arg_n]
  name := closure.F.local_vars[i]
  If[name \in closure.F.local_refs]
    frame.local_refs[name] = arg
  Else
    frame.locals[name] = arg
  End
End

H' << frame
(H) -> (H')
(S) -> (frame)
(C) -> closure
```

We then iterate through `C.F.instructions`.

# Add

We note that `S = S' :: left :: right`.

Throws a IllegalCastException if `H[left]` is not an Integer.
Throws a IllegalCastException if `H[right]` is not an Integer.

```
val := H[left] + H[right]
val_ptr := H' << val
(H) -> (H')
(S' :: left :: right) -> (S') -> (S' :: val_ptr)
```

# Dup

We note that `S = S' :: val`.

```
(S' :: val) -> (S' :: val :: val)
```

# Swap

We note that `S = S' :: val_1 :: val_2`.

```
(S' :: val_1 :: val_2) -> (S' :: val_2 :: val_1)
```

# Pop

We note that `S = S' :: val`.

```
(S' :: val) -> (S')
```
